README.md, before:

# Vulnerability Disclosures

Our vision is an open source software ecosystem where the time to fix a vulnerability and deploy that fix across the ecosystem is measured in minutes, not months. 

## Objectives and Key Results (CY 2020)

The first objectives we're using to track our progress towards that vision are:

- Create a unified format and API for vulnerability reporting (from researchers to maintainers) and drive broad adoption of it across the open source software ecosystem
- Create a unified format, API, and process for coordinated disclosure (from maintainers to users/the world) and drive broad adoption

## Outputs

- [Unified list of metadata for vulnerability reports and disclosures](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eZpBk2aIup29KcWwN5MAhvkk60EE_DRt2YRtLo8P0zs/edit?usp=sharing)
- Meeting notes are in [this repository](docs/meeting-notes)

# Governance

The [CHARTER.md](CHARTER.md) outlines the scope and governance of our group activities.


## Meetings

### Schedule

The working group meets every three weeks, on Monday at 7am Pacific. Currently we are using Zoom for working group meetings.

Contact [Marcin](mailto:marcin.hoppe@auth0.com) for calendar details.

### Agenda

Meeting agenda is published prior to the meeting in a GitHub issue with the label `meeting`. The issue contains agenda items and logistics details like date, time, Zoom link and a link to meeting notes document.

## Who is in this Working Group? 

- **Leader**: [Marcin Hoppe (Auth0 / Node.js Ecosystem Security WG)](https://github.com/MarcinHoppe)
- [Alex Mullans (GitHub)](https://github.com/infin8x)
- [Nico Waisman (GitHub)](https://github.com/nicowaisman)
- [Eva Sarafianou (Auth0)](https://github.com/esarafianou)
- [Crystal Hazen (HackerOne)](https://github.com/crystalhazen)
- [Alex Rice (HackerOne)](https://github.com/rice)
- Eric Brewer (Google)
- Steve Dower (Microsoft/CPython)
- [Hauwa Otori (GitHub)](https://github.com/HauwaOtori)
- Lindsey Glovin (Uber)
- [Sherif Mansour (OWASP)](https://github.com/kerberosmansour)
- [Martijn Russchen (HackerOne)](https://github.com/martijnrusschen)
- [Ben Willis (HackerOne)](https://github.com/bwillis)
- [Reed Loden (HackerOne)](https://github.com/reedloden)
- [Marcus Meissner (SUSE)](https://github.com/msmeissn)
- [Matthew Dressman (Microsoft)](https://github.com/mdressman)
- [Morten Linderud (Arch Linux)](https://github.com/Foxboron)
- [Josh Bressers (Elastic)](https://github.com/joshbressers/)
- [Gilles Gravier (Wipro)](https://github.com/gravax)

We use the [vulnerability-disclosures-wg](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/vulnerability-disclosures-wg) GitHub team.

Commit message:

Add link to OpenSSF community calendar

README.md, after:

# Vulnerability Disclosures

Our vision is an open source software ecosystem where the time to fix a vulnerability and deploy that fix across the ecosystem is measured in minutes, not months. 

## Objectives and Key Results (CY 2020)

The first objectives we're using to track our progress towards that vision are:

- Create a unified format and API for vulnerability reporting (from researchers to maintainers) and drive broad adoption of it across the open source software ecosystem
- Create a unified format, API, and process for coordinated disclosure (from maintainers to users/the world) and drive broad adoption

## Outputs

- [Unified list of metadata for vulnerability reports and disclosures](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eZpBk2aIup29KcWwN5MAhvkk60EE_DRt2YRtLo8P0zs/edit?usp=sharing)
- Meeting notes are in [this repository](docs/meeting-notes)

# Governance

The [CHARTER.md](CHARTER.md) outlines the scope and governance of our group activities.


## Meetings

### Schedule

The working group meets every three weeks, on Monday at 7am Pacific. Currently we are using Zoom for working group meetings. The invite is available on the [OpenSSF Community Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=czYzdm9lZmhwNWk5cGZsdGI1cTY3bmdwZXNAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ).

Contact [Marcin](mailto:marcin.hoppe@auth0.com) if you wish to be added to the invite list.

### Agenda

Meeting agenda is published prior to the meeting in a GitHub issue with the label `meeting`. The issue contains agenda items and logistics details like date, time, Zoom link and a link to meeting notes document.

## Who is in this Working Group? 

- **Leader**: [Marcin Hoppe (Auth0 / Node.js Ecosystem Security WG)](https://github.com/MarcinHoppe)
- [Alex Mullans (GitHub)](https://github.com/infin8x)
- [Nico Waisman (GitHub)](https://github.com/nicowaisman)
- [Eva Sarafianou (Auth0)](https://github.com/esarafianou)
- [Crystal Hazen (HackerOne)](https://github.com/crystalhazen)
- [Alex Rice (HackerOne)](https://github.com/rice)
- Eric Brewer (Google)
- Steve Dower (Microsoft/CPython)
- [Hauwa Otori (GitHub)](https://github.com/HauwaOtori)
- Lindsey Glovin (Uber)
- [Sherif Mansour (OWASP)](https://github.com/kerberosmansour)
- [Martijn Russchen (HackerOne)](https://github.com/martijnrusschen)
- [Ben Willis (HackerOne)](https://github.com/bwillis)
- [Reed Loden (HackerOne)](https://github.com/reedloden)
- [Marcus Meissner (SUSE)](https://github.com/msmeissn)
- [Matthew Dressman (Microsoft)](https://github.com/mdressman)
- [Morten Linderud (Arch Linux)](https://github.com/Foxboron)
- [Josh Bressers (Elastic)](https://github.com/joshbressers/)
- [Gilles Gravier (Wipro)](https://github.com/gravax)

We use the [vulnerability-disclosures-wg](https://github.com/orgs/ossf/teams/vulnerability-disclosures-wg) GitHub team.
