docs/TTX/readme.md, before:

This directory contains files for Cyber Incident Response (CIR) Table Top Exercises (TTX) that demonstrate how to prepare and "roleplay" a cyber security incident.

# Cyber Incident Response - Table Top Exercises
## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Table Top Exercise](#table-top-exercise)
- [Scenario](#scenario)
- [Exercise Objectives](#exercise-objectives)
- [Exercise Participants](#exercise-participants)
- [Exercise Materials](#exercise-materials)
- [Exercise Preparation](#exercise-preparation)
- [Exercise Execution](#exercise-execution)
- [Exercise Debrief](#exercise-debrief)
- [Exercise Conclusion](#exercise-conclusion)
- [References](#references)

## Introduction
The purpose of this document is to provide guidance on how to conduct a table top exercise for cyber incident response. This document is intended to be used by organizations, and anyone who wishes to contribute to building future exercises, that want to test their incident response plans and procedures in a controlled environment. The document provides guidance on how to craft a scenario, objectives, and materials for the exercise. It also provides guidance on how to prepare for, execute, and debrief the exercise.

## Table Top Exercise
A table top exercise is a discussion-based exercise that is designed to test an organization's incident response plans and procedures. The exercise is conducted in a controlled environment and involves key personnel who are responsible for responding to a cyber incident. The exercise is designed to identify gaps in the organization's incident response plans and procedures and to improve the organization's ability to respond to a cyber incident.

Typically at a TTX level the policies and process are under scrutiny as a standard, however we are pushing more towards involving technical investigation, response and resolution processes and guidance, as Cyber Incidents have become more widespread and visible over recent times.

With this in mind we aim to produce two 'sides' to each TTX Exercise;
- Documentation based TTX
- - Typically involves a Question and Answer document revovling around a hypothetical scenario, for participants to walkthrough and discuss hwo and why they may take specific actions against steps of the incident
- - Ideal for conference 'panelist' discussion forums, where Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) can share insights and guidance for specific steps of scenarios (e.g. Project maintainer can divulge how they would react to vulnerability disclosures)

- Technical TTX
- - We use this to underpin the entire TTX scenario, so that what we deliver is as realistic as possible, as opposed to 100% hypotheticals that are technically never exposable or viable as attack vectors in a real deployment
- - Currently we use the Center for Threat Informed Defense (CTID) Attack Flow builder - https://center-for-threat-informed-defense.github.io/attack-flow/ui/
- - Each scenario will have a .afb file attached, allowing attendees to open the technical attack flow to follow along. This proves valuable for 'technical' individuals who benefit from having a further visual and technical aid to understanding the scenario
- - Where possible we produce 'synthetic' alerts and events to accompany the Incident Response process. These are normally hand crafted to mirror what an analyst/developer may see in a typical real-world scenario, again emphasising the realness of our scenarios


## Scenario
The scenarios for the table top exercise typically occur after a cyber incident that has occurred. The scenarios are designed to be realistic and to test the organization's incident response plans and procedures. The scenario should includes a series of events that unfold over time, and the participants are required to respond to the events as they occur, and if technical members are in attendance you should be able to dive into attack flows, indicators and relevant data sources that correlate against the scenario.

## Exercise Objectives
The objectives of the table top exercise are to:
- Test the organization's incident response plans and procedures
- Identify gaps in the organization's incident response plans and procedures
- Improve the organization's ability to respond to a cyber incident, including technical directive where suitable

## Exercise Participants
The participants in the table top exercise are key personnel who are responsible for responding to a cyber incident. The participants normally include:
- Incident Response Team
- IT Security Team
- IT Operations Team
- Legal Team
- Public Relations Team
- Human Resources Team
- Business Continuity Team
- Executive Management
- Additional participants on ad-hoc basis

## Exercise Materials
The materials for the table top exercise include:
- Table top exercise scenario
- Table top exercise objectives
- Table top exercise questions based upon the scenario
- Table top exercise technical attack flow
- Table top exercise synthetic events and alerts
- Table top exercise slack channel (If running technical analysis)
- Table top exercise evaluation form

## Exercise Preparation
The preparation for the table top exercise includes:
- Creating and Reviewing the table top exercise scenario
- Reviewing the table top exercise objectives
- Creating a real-world viable technical attack flow including indicators and data source requirements
- Creating synethitic event logs and alerts from technical analysis of scenario
- Setting up the table top exercise slack channel (If required)
- Distributing the table top exercise materials to the participants

## Exercise Execution
The execution of the table top exercise includes:
- Introducing the table top exercise scenario
- Facilitating the discussion of the scenario
- If a technical exercise, setting up the technical aspects (events, alerting and feeds) into a relevant space (e.g. Slack) for analysts / developers etc to respond to
- Documenting the responses of the participants
- Evaluating the responses of the participants

## Exercise Debrief
The debrief of the table top exercise includes:
- Reviewing the responses of the participants
- Identifying gaps in the organization's incident response plans and procedures
- Identifying technical gaps in the organiation's observability and security posture (e.g. visibility of indicators, data source requirements etc)
- Developing an action plan to address the gaps

## Exercise Conclusion
The conclusion of the table top exercise includes:
- Summarizing the key findings of the exercise
- Documenting the lessons learned from the exercise
- Developing a plan to improve the organization's incident response plans and procedures

## References
- [Center for Threat Informed Defence Attack Flow] https://center-for-threat-informed-defense.github.io/attack-flow/ui/

Commit message:

Updated to readme and template
Signed-off-by: Ian-Barbour <ian.barbour@control-plane.io>

docs/TTX/readme.md, after:

This directory contains files for Cyber Incident Response (CIR) Table Top Exercises (TTX) that demonstrate how to prepare and "roleplay" a cyber security incident.

# Cyber Incident Response - Table Top Exercises
## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Table Top Exercise](#table-top-exercise)
- [Scenario](#scenario)
- [Exercise Objectives](#exercise-objectives)
- [Exercise Participants](#exercise-participants)
- [Exercise Materials](#exercise-materials)
- [Exercise Preparation](#exercise-preparation)
- [Exercise Execution](#exercise-execution)
- [Exercise Debrief](#exercise-debrief)
- [Exercise Conclusion](#exercise-conclusion)
- [References](#references)

## Introduction
The purpose of this document is to provide guidance on how to conduct a table top exercise for cyber incident response. This document is intended to be used by organizations, and anyone who wishes to contribute to building future exercises, that want to test their incident response plans and procedures in a controlled environment. The document provides guidance on how to craft a scenario, objectives, and materials for the exercise. It also provides guidance on how to prepare for, execute, and debrief the exercise.

## Table Top Exercise
A table top exercise is a discussion-based exercise that is designed to test an organization's incident response plans and procedures. The exercise is conducted in a controlled environment and involves key personnel who are responsible for responding to a cyber incident. The exercise is designed to identify gaps in the organization's incident response plans and procedures and to improve the organization's ability to respond to a cyber incident.

Typically at a TTX level the policies and process are under scrutiny as a standard, however we are pushing more towards involving technical investigation, response and resolution processes and guidance, as Cyber Incidents have become more widespread and visible over recent times.

With this in mind we aim to produce two 'sides' to each TTX Exercise;
- Documentation based TTX
- - Typically involves a Question and Answer document revovling around a hypothetical scenario, for participants to walkthrough and discuss hwo and why they may take specific actions against steps of the incident
- - Ideal for conference 'panelist' discussion forums, where Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) can share insights and guidance for specific steps of scenarios (e.g. Project maintainer can divulge how they would react to vulnerability disclosures)

- Technical TTX
- - We use this to underpin the entire TTX scenario, so that what we deliver is as realistic as possible, as opposed to 100% hypotheticals that are technically never exposable or viable as attack vectors in a real deployment
- - Currently we use the Center for Threat Informed Defense (CTID) Attack Flow builder - https://center-for-threat-informed-defense.github.io/attack-flow/ui/
- - Each scenario will have a .afb file attached, allowing attendees to open the technical attack flow to follow along. This proves valuable for 'technical' individuals who benefit from having a further visual and technical aid to understanding the scenario
- - Where possible we produce 'synthetic' alerts and events to accompany the Incident Response process. These are normally hand crafted to mirror what an analyst/developer may see in a typical real-world scenario, again emphasising the realness of our scenarios


## Scenario
The scenarios for the table top exercise typically occur after a cyber incident that has occurred. The scenarios are designed to be realistic and to test the organization's incident response plans and procedures. The scenario should includes a series of events that unfold over time, and the participants are required to respond to the events as they occur, and if technical members are in attendance you should be able to dive into attack flows, indicators and relevant data sources that correlate against the scenario.

Included with every scenario should be a template (e.g. Within Andromeda_Gales there is a scenario_template.md) which covers the scenario walkthrough / roleplay, required attendees, questions and format to the TTX.

## Exercise Objectives
The objectives of the table top exercise are to:
- Test the organization's incident response plans and procedures
- Identify gaps in the organization's incident response plans and procedures
- Improve the organization's ability to respond to a cyber incident, including technical directive where suitable

## Exercise Participants
The participants in the table top exercise are key personnel who are responsible for responding to a cyber incident. The participants normally include:
- Incident Response Team
- IT Security Team
- IT Operations Team
- Legal Team
- Public Relations Team
- Human Resources Team
- Business Continuity Team
- Executive Management
- Additional participants on ad-hoc basis

## Exercise Materials
The materials for the table top exercise include:
- Table top exercise scenario
- Table top exercise objectives
- Table top exercise questions based upon the scenario
- Table top exercise technical attack flow
- Table top exercise synthetic events and alerts
- Table top exercise slack channel (If running technical analysis)
- Table top exercise evaluation form

## Exercise Preparation
The preparation for the table top exercise includes:
- Creating and Reviewing the table top exercise scenario
- Reviewing the table top exercise objectives
- Creating a real-world viable technical attack flow including indicators and data source requirements
- Creating synethitic event logs and alerts from technical analysis of scenario
- Setting up the table top exercise slack channel (If required)
- Distributing the table top exercise materials to the participants

## Exercise Execution
The execution of the table top exercise includes:
- Introducing the table top exercise scenario
- Facilitating the discussion of the scenario
- If a technical exercise, setting up the technical aspects (events, alerting and feeds) into a relevant space (e.g. Slack) for analysts / developers etc to respond to
- Documenting the responses of the participants
- Evaluating the responses of the participants

## Exercise Debrief
The debrief of the table top exercise includes:
- Reviewing the responses of the participants
- Identifying gaps in the organization's incident response plans and procedures
- Identifying technical gaps in the organiation's observability and security posture (e.g. visibility of indicators, data source requirements etc)
- Developing an action plan to address the gaps

## Exercise Conclusion
The conclusion of the table top exercise includes:
- Summarizing the key findings of the exercise
- Documenting the lessons learned from the exercise
- Developing a plan to improve the organization's incident response plans and procedures

## References
- [Center for Threat Informed Defence Attack Flow] https://center-for-threat-informed-defense.github.io/attack-flow/ui/
